# Bailey Bot

## Functionality

### Monitoring

Bailey Bot monitors new messages sent in specified channels. Specified channels can be added and removed. If there are no specified channels, then all channels are checked. The bot can also be configured so that all messages sent in the specified channels are monitored. Any suspected scammers or sellers will be posted by the bot in a specified log channel, where moderators will be pinged to check the user behind the message.

### Judgement

Bailey Bot uses an LLM (DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B from HuggingFace) to review the message content and will return a judgement score. If the judgement score is above a certain threshold, it will automatically delete the message and ban the offending user. If the judgement score is above a lower threshold, it will ping a moderator for manual review. If testing mode is enabled, only text warnings will be sent. Both of these thresholds can be set by a moderator.

## Quick Start

1. **Set Log Channel:** `$set log <channel>`
2. **Add Channels to Monitor:** `$add monitor <channel>`
3. **Add Monitoring Roles:** `$add monitor_role <role>`
4. **Toggle Active:** `$set active True` (default is True)

## Commands

All commands (except for `$help`) must be run by someone with role permissions (which I'll call a moderator), specified by roles added with `$add monitor_role <role>`. If there are no roles in this list, then anyone can run the commands. 

`$help`
Returns a help menu for running Bailey Bot.

`$summary`
Generates a summary of the bot's current configuration.

`$set active <bool>`
Sets whether or not the bot is active.

`$set test <bool>`
Sets whether or not the bot is in test mode.

`$set new_only <bool>`
Sets whether or not the bot will only check messages sent by new members.

`$set auto <0.6-1.0>`
Sets the minimum score required for the bot to automatically ban (outside of test mode).
This score must be between 0.6 and 1.0 and greater than or equal to the manual score.

`$set manual <0.6-1.0>`
Sets the minimum score required for the bot to request a manual ban (outside of test mode).
This score must be between 0.6 and 1.0 and less than or equal to the automatic score.

`$set log <channel>`
Sets the channel that all logs are sent to. It is recommended that this is set to a private, permissioned channel.

`$add monitor <channel>`
Adds a new channel to be monitored by the bot. If no monitors are set, then all channels are monitored by default.

`$add monitor_role <role>`
Adds a new role to act as a monitor to the bot's activity (meaning they will be pinged every time a scam is detected).

`$remove monitor <channel>`
Removes a channel to be monitored by the bot. If no monitors are set, then all channels are monitored by default.

`$remove monitor_role <role>`
Removes a role from acting as a monitor to the bot's activity (meaning they will be pinged every time a scam is detected).

## Model

The `model` folder includes everything you need to retrain and fine-tune the model. Inside, the `data` folder includes the .csv file found [here](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/shibe123/discord-phishing-scam?resource=download) plus some extra synthetic data generated by Gemini, appended at the very end of the file. The `config` folder should include configuration files for running tests, but this currently is not implemented. The `outputs` folder includes the results of all training runs. This folder is currently empty because each run folder is approximately 250 MB, so you will have to run the tests yourself. (This folder may not even exist, so make sure it's created before running any tests.) Unfortunately neither are their performances documented so you will also have to test them yourselves in `inference.py`, which provides the functions that bailey-bot calls along with a simple performance test which can be run with `python inference.py` (assuming you have the dependencies installed of course). Just remember to change the `RUN_FOLDER` to test the results of a specific training run. The `src` folder contains `model.py` which defines the structure of the model (distilbert plus a few linear layers and a sigmoid layer), `dataset.py` which loads the data in `data`, and `main.py` which actually trains the model. As a side note, the texts are parsed with special symbols such as `<USER>` or `<URL>` to improve the quality of the model.

### Training

Note that these instructions are written for macOS. I pray that you are knowledgeable enough to execute the following instructions with Windows or Linux.

1. First verify that you are in the `model` folder. This is where all subsequent commands should be run.
2. If you want to edit the hyperparameters, edit `src/main.py`. You can change the epochs, training rate, etc.
3. Create a virtual environment with `python -m venv .model-venv`, run the environment with `source .model-venv/bin/activate`, and install dependencies with `pip install -r model-requirements.txt`
4. Run the training script with `python src/main.py`. This took about 4-5 minutes on my M1 Pro Mac. 
5. If you want to test the results of the new model, first find the latest run folder by running `ls outputs`(note that the format is YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS) and copy the name of that folder. Go into `inference.py` and change `RUN_FOLDER` with the name of the copied folder. Finally run `python inference.py`. The model's evaluations will be displayed under each text.

## Assumptions and Limitations

This bot is really intended for small scale servers where the member count is small and members aren't talking that often. I mean I literally wrote it for the UCSBreakin' Discord server. UCSBreakin' is not that big (although we still get scammers somehow). As such, although the bot is flexible enough to be used in multiple servers and can be configured relatively easily, it is not intended to scale very well. I assume it would work comfortably for 25 servers, but I would be concerned if the bot were to monitor 100+ servers or a few really, really big servers. But if you somehow managed to invite the bot to your server without any sort of connection to me, you'll probably be fine—I don't imagine that that many servers are already using it.

Anyways I have a list of features in mind that could help with scaling, ease of accessibility, and general quality:

1. Monitor only the first `n` messages a user sends and then mark them as safe, which will prevent unnecessary calls to the model
2. Save server configurations in a `.json` file for when the bot crashes
3. An easier deployment pipeline (I don't think I'll be running Bailey Bot forever with my free plan, so someone else will have to deploy it themselves)
4. A better classification model
5. Better documentation


If (for whatever reason) you want to implement the above changes (or something else), then feel free to contact me about that. 

## Contact Me

If you have any questions about anything, contact me on Discord at @bay.salt or email me at baileyasay@gmail.com. FYI I'm kind of a goon because I had Gemini help out a lot for this project.
